---
title: "Farm Project Proposal"
output: pdf_document
---

\newpage
# Collaborative Farm Proposal Cover letter

We are excited to present our project proposal, which involves the
implementation of an automated data collection system for organic farm
harvest data. This initiative is a collaborative effort between the
Computer Science Department and the Organic Farm's Principles of Farming
class at Evergreen State College. The primary objective of this project
is to upgrade the new wash station with the necessary technology to
facilitate automated data collection of harvest data.

Specifically, our project aims to collect the weights of harvested
items, categorized into four main groups: \"To Market,\" \"To Student
Services,\" \"Cull,\" and \"Value Added.\" The \"To Market\" items are
of marketable quality and will be sold at the student-led organic farm
stand. \"To Student Services\" items, although visually imperfect, are
still of fair condition and will be provided to student services for
free distribution. The \"Value Added\" category includes items that,
while edible, are severely bruised and require transformation, such as
turning bruised apples into apple butter. The \"Cull\" items are
unsuitable for human consumption and will be composted to nourish future
crops.

The technical details of the data collection system are outlined in the
design document. In summary, weight data from scales will be fed into a
Raspberry Pi and displayed on a screen. Categorization will be managed
using barcode scanners to ensure speed and accuracy, akin to retail
inventory tracking systems. We have prioritized ease of maintenance and
durability in our hardware selections, allowing for minimal upkeep. When
maintenance is necessary, the required off-the-shelf parts are detailed
in the Bill of Materials and design document. Over the next quarter, we
will develop a maintenance guide that is user-friendly enough to be
managed by freshman CS students if there is interest. Another option for
long term maintenance is to use front desk workers, this would be a way
to increase community engagement and make the ACC more vibrant and see
increased usage. The maintenance document will be engineered for ease of
maintenance.

Our system is designed with long-term objectives in mind. While nothing
is entirely future-proof, this setup is highly resilient to future
developments. Utilizing a Raspberry Pi as the central hub allows for
connectivity with hexapod robots, sensory hubs for monitoring soil
moisture and nitrogen levels, and machine vision weed detection.

This comprehensive data collection will enable the organic farm to make
informed farming decisions. In the immediate term, the harvest data will
guide the farm in selecting the most financially sustainable crops.
Looking ahead, with potential regenerative farming faculty, hexapod
robots could monitor weeds and pests, aiding in the strategic release of
chickens to control pest insects. Continuous soil nutrient monitoring
through sensor clusters in the micro controllers class will provide farm
students with a more detailed understanding of soil conditions beyond
intermittent lab measurements. These data streams will also inform the
development of predictive mathematical models for nutrient cycling,
etc., to help develop upper division science curriculum on the farm.

All collected data will be open source, benefiting not only Evergreen
State College students but also local businesses and other agricultural
science departments. In 1975, students laid the foundation for the
farmhouse; in 2025 let students lay the foundation for a modern farm
that will serve for the next 50 years.

Thank you for considering our proposal. We look forward to your support
and collaboration on this trans-formative project.

Sincerely,

Students of the All Organic farm-Computer Science Collaboration team.

Evergreen State College
